Now I will humbly request in the blessed presence of Hazrat Qibla Pir Syed Muhammad Shabbir Ali Shah Sahib Gilani
that you quench the thirst of our hearts and enlighten us about the life of Hazrat Baba Ali Sahib
illuminate our hearts and minds. Nara-e-Takbeer!
Allahu Akbar! Nara-e-Risalat!
Ya Rasool Allah! Nara-e-Takbeer!
Ya Rasool Allah! Long live Astana Aaliya Chura Sharif!
We praise Him and send blessings upon His Noble Messenger. After that, I seek refuge in Allah the All-Hearing, All-Knowing, the Most Noble
from Satan the accursed. In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious
the Most Merciful. First of all, I...
this dignified and simple ceremony, in the series of interviews
questions and answers, in this connection these young people
Website Chura Sharif organized this
Subhan Allah! And
I also pray that may Allah keep this series of theirs going and continuing
Ameen. The personality about whom this interview is being conducted today
questions and answers are being asked
their status, their greatness, their glory
The purpose is simply this - that by describing their greatness and glory, we want to enlighten our hearts
and minds. Subhan Allah!
Since I have often mentioned before
that Darbar Aaliya Chura Sharif is a center, a capital of the exalted Naqshbandiyya Mujaddidiyya order
from which thousands and millions of people have benefited
Subhan Allah! They will continue to benefit
Subhan Allah! They are benefiting now
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! Today anyone who has any connection with Sufism
or who holds love for the Sufis in their heart
whoever belongs to any spiritual order, whoever is a servant of any saint
whoever follows a Sufi, I will say with great confidence
that when Chura Sharif's name is mentioned, when its discussion begins
there cannot be any scholar, any Sufi, anyone connected to Sufism who is unaware of Chura Sharif
Subhan Allah!
More than a century has passed since Chura Sharif was established
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! And this chain continues till today - the blessings of Naqshbandiyya Mujaddidiyya are being distributed
This is not mere talk, I am not just speaking empty words
The sun has come - the evidence of the sun itself
That Baba Ji, the crown of Chura Sharif, your blessed progeny
our forefathers have blessed millions - this is not just something to write or speak about
This is not limited to words - look at that time, all of India
that era, from Afghanistan
to the four corners of the world, especially to Hindustan, to Iran
to Syria and Turkey - this chain of blessings that Baba Ji Sahib or his servants and devotees
the devotees have spread. Subhan Allah!
Subhan Allah! But there was a difficulty - since the circumstances were such
which I will briefly mention
that at that time, confronting the government was not an easy task
But the Mujaddidi traditions were kept alive and that invitation letter
either accept the government's authority or become a migrant. They did not accept the government's authority
The government at that time was non-Muslim. They did not submit to the government. Otherwise
thousands of people of that era accepted their authority, who today are playing among thousands and millions
Subhan Allah!
But Baba Ji, the crown of Chura Sharif, declared that I am a beggar at the door of Mustafa
Allahu Akbar! I have no greater inheritance than this
And if I have any inheritance, it is this torn mat of mine
This blanket on my shoulder, this old cloth, and this water pot of mine
No one can take this away from me
But I will speak only that which pleases Allah and His Messenger
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! Now another difficulty was that at that time
there was no special media era. There was no written tradition either
But when written documentation began, even that was not sufficient to quench people's thirst
And the sad truth is, and all friends will agree
that those who had the right, in my opinion, did not fulfill their duty either. They kept working in their own way
But Alhamdulillah, Baba Ji Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi, Lord of the Worlds
Hazoor Baba Ji Pir Syed Noor Muhammad Gilani Rahmatullah Alayhi's name was bright then, is bright now, and will remain bright until the morning of Judgment Day
Hazoor Qibla Alam Baba Ji Pir Haider Shah
known as Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar - they are asking about this personality who was a living example of his predecessors
Consider him a picture of the pure Shariah
Consider him a treasure of love for Mustafa
Subhan Allah! On whose lips always
either the support of Quran or the lesson of the life of Mustafa Kareem would be present
Subhan Allah! I will explain further ahead
Since there was no media era. This was a worn and weary caravan. It started from Baghdad. It stopped at various places
It reached Bukhara. From there, moving forward, this worn caravan, giving lessons of truth, reached the Kurram Agency area of Tirah
Stayed there, then this caravan moved again to North Waziristan, stopped at Akhan Kot
From there, this caravan of three or two people moved on. One brother stayed in Tirah Sharif
The younger brother, there is a place on the Kohat to Bannu road called Darsamand
Darsamand - this is a common invitation. They settled in Darsamand
Their descendants are still there today. The Sadat Gilani of Darsamand are our paternal cousins
Subhan Allah! A single person, this caravan consisted of four people. First, in 1867 or 68, Chura Sharif was settled
Camp was set up. Great difficulties and hardships were endured. But the word of truth was never abandoned
Subhan Allah!
They did not care for worldly property. Hundreds of
lands and estates were sent on golden trays saying just speak one word - accept our authority
This was at the time when the present district Attock of Chura Sharif did not exist
At that time the district was headquartered at Shahpur
This was at that time. But they said no, these estates, these lands mean nothing to me compared to a single piece from the door of Mustafa
Subhan Allah! As Ala Hazrat said - do not fall at the feet of strangers for their scraps
Hazoor Qibla Ala Baba Ji, the story will be long. Pir Haider Shah Badshah, as we have heard - since there is no written record as I said
his birth was in Tirah Sharif. Subhan Allah! He was born in Tirah Sharif
The chain continued there but these are travelers of another caravan. The first caravan that settled Chura Sharif, they are not from that caravan
They are from the second or third caravan that culminated, they came to Darbar Chura Sharif in that caravan
This was the chain of his birth. Now, Allah knows the truth of what we have heard or seen and read
Who proposed his name? Who gave him the title?
Subhan Allah! We heard from the elders
that his blessed birth
was in Tirah Sharif. The name that was proposed, it was by his grandfather
Hazrat Baba Ji Syed Faqir Muhammad Rahmatullah Alayhi who proposed it
He proposed the name
The first haircut was also given by Hazrat's own hands
Subhan Allah! After giving the haircut, he raised his hands in prayer
saying O my Lord, this prince grandson you have blessed me with, my Lord, I have named him Haider Shah
I have connected his lineage to Maula Murtaza Haider Karrar
Subhan Allah! My Lord, honor the name I have given
and honor my prayer, and may he possess those qualities that Sarkar Maula Murtaza Haider Karrar had. This was the chain of naming
Subhan Allah! Now about his childhood
His brother who was an elder
I heard from him just one or two things. First was that from childhood, as is the way of the Sufis
from childhood there was a chain of piety
there was a chain of God-consciousness
staying away from frivolous talk or any sports and games of that time
And I have also heard that those who were his peers, same age companions, he would tell them even in childhood
that brother, we have not come to this world for play and games, to waste our time in games
We have come to this world to do some work. Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah!
And we have to do work in this world. So I have heard that his peers would say
what work do we have to do, brother, tell us. He would say the greatest work is that we have to spread the word of truth to the people
and my father's teachings - I have to spread them. Subhan Allah!
This is what I heard. Subhan Allah!
These are the childhood circumstances. What else, how else - only Allah knows best
These two things I heard, I have presented. Where did he get his early education
and who was among his teachers
Just like, from today, some time ago
before
this, in our
elders' and ancestors' homes, this tradition continued that early education was given at home
It was given at home because that era was such
that the pearls of knowledge distributed at home were very deep and precious
And in obtaining education, Baba Ji Sarkar's elders, so early education was from his father
and his paternal uncle Hazoor who was a leading scholar of that time
a genius of his era, whose blessed name was Hazrat Baba Ji Muhammad Syed Muhammad Gul Nabi Shah Rahmatullah Alayhi
Subhan Allah!
He was his paternal uncle who was running the chain of education at that time. Then there was grandfather's education too
His grandfather Hazrat Baba Ji Syed Faqir Pir Muhammad Rahmatullah Alayhi who was the elder brother
From the land of Afghanistan to the land of Hindustan, he was called Mulla Ji
Since only in Pakistan and India, or perhaps Bangladesh, East Pakistan - this word Mufti is used
but in Afghanistan and other matters, the word Mulla was used. Mulla meant a person of piety, a person of knowledge
and one who has enough knowledge to give a fatwa. And Hazrat's great grandfather
His blessed name was Hazrat Baba Ji Syed Deen Muhammad Shah Rahmatullah Alayhi, known as Hazrat Mulla Ji Sahib
I have also heard that some benefit was taken from him too, since they had established a proper school here at Chura Sharif
where their progeny and family members were taught. That was the chain of education at that time
In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Now this question is about the name Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Haider Shah Sahib Badshah
what comes with it - Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar. I have heard
that his brothers who were his contemporaries at that time
in some gathering his elders, grandfather and uncle
mentioned something about the Prophet, the Pride of all Creation
the Noble Master, the Beloved, peace be upon him, his blessed shawl
the black shawl, the black blanket. It settled so deeply in his heart
that from childhood to youth, from youth till the end, he took black cloth, made it into a shawl
and started keeping it not on the right but on the left shoulder, according to the Sunnah. Subhan Allah!
And when someone asked about this black shawl, Sarkar said my Master used a black blanket
so I say this is my Master's Sunnah. Subhan Allah!
May this tradition also continue. Subhan Allah!
And then that black shawl became such a part of life
that he became famous for it. In Chura Sharif, his brothers and elders
made him famous saying Haider Shah Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! Even today in Chura Sharif if someone says Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar
everyone understands. The youth of our family, my brothers, elders even now understand
that Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar means Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Haider Shah Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi
This was the chain of the black shawl. Alhamdulillah
Now the word Badshah - there are two meanings. One is humorous - someone who is carefree, detached
is called Badshah. Another meaning is when someone has kingly qualities, they are called Badshah
Now his state of indifference was such
and his state of absorption was such, his closeness to Allah and the Prophet was such that whoever came, big or small, sat down, left, greetings were exchanged, well-being was asked, and that was all
After that, his royal demeanor was such that
he wore very fine clothing his entire life. He used elegant attire
He used a beautiful waistcoat. So this relationship was also bestowed from his family
His elders would say this son of ours is a king. Subhan Allah!
He is a king. Subhan Allah!
So in this regard, this title or honor, whatever you may call it
Haider Shah Badshah - this word was used. But in the world of Sufism
those who were his contemporaries, I don't know about them. But I will note the reference of Kasur
Many people in England are witnesses to this. In Kasur there was a great saint of the Chishti order
Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Syed Naqeeb Ullah Shah Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi
A reliable companion told me this
that in his gathering, there was mention of Hazoor Baba Ji Qibla Alam Pir Syed Naqeeb Ullah Shah Sahib
He was a great Sufi, a great scholar, not ordinary at all. He was a high-ranking
scholar and at that time, the sign of a Pir was that they were great scholars. Subhan Allah!
Subhan Allah!
Among them was Hazrat Baba Ji Sayyidna Naqeeb Ullah Shah Sahib, a perfect Sufi
When his gathering started discussing leisurely, he paid attention and asked whose mention is this
A servant said it's about Chura Sharif. Then in a state of spiritual ecstasy, friends who were his servants here tell us
that in a strange spiritual state, he said the one you are mentioning, Pir Haider Shah Sahib - he was a king of spiritual path
Subhan Allah!
He was the king of the spiritual path. This is no ordinary thing. So this also happened that his peers and contemporaries
and those after him, the people of Sufism, people of insight, they would acknowledge that he wanted the spiritual path
In the name of Allah. This is a tradition that comes in our family, and is in most families
that the family's pledge is within the family. Now whose hand is the pledge on? A person of wisdom understands
Like my sons, their pledge is to their paternal grandfather's younger brother Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Muhammad Ali Shah Sarkar's blessed hand
The youngest wasn't there at that time, but Usman Shah, Fazl Usman Shah, Fazl Noman Shah's pledge is on his hand
In this way, this chain continues till today. Pledges also happen outside, like my nephews - may Allah grant them safety
Both or three nephews' pledge is to Hazrat Baba Ji Sarkar Sirhindi Sarkar, probably Muhammad Masum - not Sarhad, Madani
He was in Madinah Munawwarah. Both their pledges are on his hand. In this way
there are other young men of ours whose pledges are outside. But Alhamdulillah, in the Mujaddidiyya and Naqshbandiyya order
as I have come to know from somewhere that some youth had an inclination towards Hazrat Sarkar Baba Ji Muhammad Fazl Usman Jan Sirhindi
their eagerness was towards him. Similarly, Hazrat Baba Ji Sarkar Syed Haider Shah Badshah, Kali Chadar Wali Sarkar's pledge
was on his grandfather's hand, whom the world of Sufism knows as Hazrat Baba Ji Syed Faqir Muhammad Rahmatullah Alayhi
Subhan Allah! The Khilafats (spiritual successions) he had - he had two Khilafats
One Khilafat was bestowed from his grandfather, and the second Khilafat was from his father
Hazrat Baba Ji Syed Ahmad Nabi, known as Zulfan Wali Sarkar
He would lovingly mention that I have served two kings and from two emperors I have obtained this chain
Subhan Allah!
Masha Allah, this is a beautiful question. Since Hazrat's passing was in 64
In 64, at that time I was studying at Dar ul Uloom Jamia Naeemia. But from Chura Sharif at that time
his spiritual retreat was at Dhok Mithi Sharif. I would present myself in his service whenever I was free
This was before going to Lahore and after. During my student days, it was my good fortune that Sarkar asked
what do you do, where are you? I submitted that Sarkar, I am in Lahore. What do you do? I said I study
Where do you study? What do you study? I said Dar ul Uloom Jamia Naeemia. He said I know, I know Mufti Muhammad Hussain Naeemi Sahib
I said he is among our teachers. He teaches and there are other teaching faculty too
After a silence, he told me that sometimes take out time and visit Data Ganj Bakhsh Ali Hujwiri. Subhan Allah!
Don't be proud of sitting at the head, sit at the feet. Subhan Allah!
And after finishing there, sometimes also visit Allama Iqbal, the Qalandar of Lahore. He will also give you something
Subhan Allah! This was one chain. Then I started going. There's a tradition in Lahore
that on Thursdays we must go to Data Sahib, and while passing, we visit Allama Iqbal Rahmatullah Alayhi
The term Lahori Qalandar was used by Baba Ji Pir Haider Shah Rahmatullah Alayhi first. If anyone else claims it, I have no concern
Then I would go there. Now let me tell you something interesting
Two miracles of Allama Iqbal Sahib I will mention that I have seen practically, not just heard
The first was in 60... or 66
I was traveling from Daska and was on a bus. On the way there is a beautiful turn called Nandipur where there's a power station
When we reached there, a cool breeze blew. It was summer season. A thought came to my mind
that I have such love and devotion for Allama Iqbal Rahmatullah Alayhi but he has never guided me till today
I thought just this and my eyes closed. When I dozed off, I saw Allama Sahib standing next to me in the bus
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! He placed his hand on my shoulder and said you have complained, so open this notebook
I had a book in my hand, it was a student custom then. Whatever was liked was written down
The teachers would say the same. Whatever was liked, I wrote it. There were also folk songs that I liked
Many verses were written on vehicles that were liked. There was always a pen with me
Then Allama Rahmatullah Alayhi, Lahori Qalandar, said you have complained, so write now. What did he make me write?
He ordered me to write: This lesson I have learned from Lahori Qalandar. Subhan Allah!
This lesson I have learned from Lahori Qalandar - Being a beggar of Mustafa is better than being Alexander of the world
Subhan Allah! Allah, this he made me note down, I noted it. And when the bus jolted, I looked, it was written there but Hazrat was not there
Subhan Allah!
After that, since Hazrat had instructed to keep visiting Allama Iqbal
they will give you something from there. Then once I complained that there are only two or three Naats explicitly titled in your work
You haven't written a Naat with a specific title. So in a dream, Hazrat Allama Lahori Qalandar told me
that I have written one Naat which has not been destroyed but is lying in my library. The first verse of that Naat is:
The eye of the lover perceives the semi-veil. No matter how much he hides his face in Taiba
hiding it a thousand times. Now regarding training, I would often reach Hazrat's service
From there, book learning was less but practical learning was abundant. Subhan Allah!
What was practical learning? Like, I won't attribute this to him, but Azam Lahori has a verse in his Naat
He sits on a mat but is enthroned on the heavens. From there practically, I learned a lesson
That practical lesson was that despite having everything, one must keep oneself humble and modest
Not boast. Practically, this is what was learned there. And as for training, Alhamdulillah whatever is there, it is the blessing of Sarkar's gaze
Subhan Allah! Beautiful moments - each and every moment was beautiful, more beautiful. But in my conscious life
there are many beautiful moments. That time was also beautiful. Today I recall that mats are spread
and the king of Chura Sharif is seated. Subhan Allah! Hazoor Baba Ji is present
My respected father is present. Hazoor Qibla Chacha Ji (paternal uncle) is present. Grandfather's younger brother
Hazoor Qibla Pir Mahboob Shah Sahib is present. And his maternal cousin, grandfather who was a great leading scholar of his time
a very great leading scholar. His blessed name was Hazoor Qibla Alam Baba Ji Pir Syed Maulana Saeed Ahmad Shah Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi
who was a maternal cousin, is seated. And then others including his other maternal cousins
Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Syed Muhammad Shafi Rahmatullah Alayhi. And they are
discussing something amongst themselves. The discussion is about a well in the mosque
whether drinking water from it is permissible or not. This discussion was going on
It was a beautiful moment. Very heated questions and answers were happening
And in this Q&A, what did Baba Ji say? He said my teacher - he didn't say which one
had said that if the well is endowed for the mosque, then its water is not for the general public but for the worshippers
If it's general, then the public can take water from it. Now this well is in the mosque
They said build a small wall and put it outside the mosque's corner, so people can also drink
That was a beautiful moment. It was my childhood and those brothers, Masha Allah, were engaged in heated discussions
Similarly, I remember one phrase about this mourning food we cook in Pakistan
In our area we call it Khairat. The mourning food that's cooked. In our Azad Kashmir too
I don't remember much. Just that someone said is it permissible or not? Some discussion was going on
Baba Ji smiled and said to Maulana Mian Saeed Shah Sahib - I know this much that mourning food is for travelers
Keep this food as food, don't make it a feast. If you make it a feast, perhaps there won't be a permissible way
But if you make it a necessity, perhaps this matter will resolve. Those were beautiful moments
Those beautiful moments are still before me. Sometimes traveling on horseback with a caravan of devotees
Sometimes talking about Madinah Tayyibah, tears flowing from eyes. And what Naat was being recited
A Naat was being recited: The cool shadows of your fasts, the cold breezes, O Wearer of the Blanket
This was a Naat. Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah!
And I remember two or three verses of another Naat. What beautiful moments they were
What a strange gathering it was. There were Naat reciters, there was an elder. Since I was a child
I remember till today that Naat which was: Every moment I await, of the Lord of the Black Blanket
My eyes keep looking towards the paths of the Arabian camel riders
That Naat was being recited. Those were beautiful moments. But since it was childhood
In 64, he passed away. These two or three things are preserved in my mind
Look, the thing is that when Pakistan came into existence, this is a long political question but I'll be brief
When it was time to create Pakistan, in India's - if I say 100 percent, it's still correct - 99 percent
of the Mashaikh were determined to create Pakistan. Subhan Allah!
And the slogan was: We will create Pakistan. The cry was: We will take Pakistan. Subhan Allah!
In this regard, Hazrat's residence was in Lahore, Wasal Pura, Chowk Piranwala
Maulana Muhammad Bakhsh Muslim D Rahmatullah Alayhi was the special advisor to Hazrat Baba Ji Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Quaid-e-Azam
Quaid-e-Azam Sahib said that Muslim Sahib's matter doesn't seem to be working out
What should we do? Muslim Sahib said there is a Pir, an elder who has great influence in politics
The world calls him Pir Jamaat Ali Shah. If he comes under our influence, it would be great
When you went to him - now if anyone denies this, that's their choice, but what Muslim Sahib himself told me
He said I am bound by the command of my Sheikh, my Mashaikh. Wherever they guide me, I will go. Subhan Allah!
Now I don't know what permissions were sought. In any case, Pakistan should be created
Muslim Sahib took Muhammad Ali Jinnah and presented himself to Baba Ji in Wasal Pura
He came with a message. Baba Ji said tomorrow. The next day he summoned Amir-e-Millat
Hazrat Hafiz Ji Rahmatullah Alayhi came to him. He said Jamaat Ali Shah, I command you
to start a nationwide movement and go out with the flag of Pakistan. Allah will make you successful
Subhan Allah! Then Hazrat Amir-e-Millat submitted: Hazrat, if Pakistan is created, I will go out
If it's not created, what will happen? Sarkar said: Jamaat Ali Shah, this has been approved from the Court above
Subhan Allah! This has been approved from the Court above
Subhan Allah! In any case, the country will be created and the credit will go to Quaid-e-Azam
Subhan Allah!
Pir Jamaat Ali Shah Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi would say that when I received this order from the Pir Khana
he would say in Punjabi: Oh brother, my liver became cold, my liver became satisfied
that I got the confirmation, I was certain I would create Pakistan
And then after that, the fatwa that was issued - the truth should be told
The fatwa that was issued from Kuchocha Sharif - the present Hashmi Mian Sahib, their grandfather
issued the fatwa. Samja Hasan Shah Sahib Rahmatullah Alayhi, Muhaddith Kuchochvi
The fatwa was that a Muslim who doesn't vote for Muslim League, if he dies, don't bury him in a Muslim cemetery
This was a very sensitive and strict fatwa. And this fatwa was verified by Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Haider Shah
who said the fatwa from Kuchocha Sharif is absolutely correct. Hold it and go out. Allah will make you successful
Subhan Allah!
Many religious institutions are established. The institutions named Jamia Haideria
You also have Jamia Haideria running. And Alhamdulillah there's one in Chura Sharif
in Lahore too, in Rawalpindi too there's an institution running
In Peer Badai near Fauji Colony, Alhamdulillah Jamia Haideria Mujaddidiyya is running
Similarly locally one is running in Mithi Sharif too, Jamia Haideria. In Lahore too. Then in Hanjer Rayald
near Gujranwala, there too. Many institutions are attributed to Baba Ji's name
Because whatever we get is the charity and blessing of your name
And it's our duty as servants that wherever we establish an institution, we attribute it to Hazrat's name
Subhan Allah! As for patronage, in Lahore, since part of his life was spent there
He greatly patronized Ahzab ul Anaf, patronized Jamia Naemania
And as for mosques, he had many mosques built
Many mosques were built, he left imams there and took their salary and maintenance upon himself
saying your only duty is to lead prayers and teach children the Quran. Subhan Allah!
Teach the Quran, teach Hadith
But after that, if any representative of any school came to him in any matter, he wouldn't send them empty-handed
He would always bestow something, patronize them. We have many proofs of where all he patronized
Even in Makkah Mukarramah, there was a school, its name was Salafiyya, Jamia Salafiyya
But at that time it wasn't made into a particular sect. We have correspondence from there too
that Sarkar used to patronize them too. And during that time, there was also a school in Madinah Tayyibah
which he patronized and sent his share there
And after that, in Jamia Mujaddidiyya Sirhind Sharif, on top of Hazrat Mujaddid Pak's Khanqah
the school that was established, at that time Sarkar used to patronize that too
And annually he would send them cash and would say with great joy
Brothers, all the charity we receive is due to Hazrat Mujaddid Pak's blessing
so why shouldn't we serve wholeheartedly? Subhan Allah!
But you cannot even imagine how strict was the adherence to Shariah
The adherence to Shariah was such that even in gatherings no one could do anything wrong
I remember a religious scholar came - I won't mention his name - he had tied
a turban with a very large tassel. Sarkar called him close with affection
and said, Maulana, I have read that a small tassel is permissible
but keeping such a large one exceeds the limits. Allah!
Similarly, even young girls were not allowed to recite Quran loudly
There was restriction on them too. Similarly, I observed that when
Sarkar would put on blessed sandals, he would put the right foot in first
Subhan Allah! And if anyone made a mistake, he would correct them
saying this is not correct, don't do it this way. Even in eating, there was such discipline
that all companions would eat together and he would say, say Bismillah loudly
so that each one can hear the other
And there are many such matters - how many should I enumerate?
But it wasn't harsh - there was no strictness. There was a way of explaining
with gentleness, not harshness. He would explain in a unique manner
Two elders from our Azad Kashmir, District Kotli, went to meet him
Let me tell you their names - one was Hazrat Maulana Muhammad Baqir Ali Khan
His descendants are all in Bolton. The other who came to meet was Hakim Wilayat Khan
His descendants are also in Bolton. Hakim Wilayat Khan didn't have a beard - he used to shave
And Maulana Baqir Ali Sahib, being a Maulvi, had kept a beard
So Baba Ji Sarkar asked Maulvi Baqir Ali Khan - has it been applied?
He replied yes. Then asked the other one - has it been applied?
He said, wait a moment. Allahu Akbar!
Didn't say anything - wait a moment. They sat for one or two minutes
and then Hakim Sahib used to say that much time passed but my wish was
that when I present myself at Baba Ji's court, the Sunnah of Mustafa should be on my face
Subhan Allah! This was a practice - once a companion stood up to drink water
Sarkar gestured for him to sit down. When he sat, Sarkar said
My Master the Prophet has said to drink water while sitting
Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah! So these were many things. And another interesting thing
is that there was a Maulana, his name was Maulana Muhammad Fazl-e-Ilahi Rahmatullah Alayh
In Baba Ji's gatherings, his duty was to give lessons in Hadith
Subhan Allah! Hazoor himself would listen, the companions would listen too
and when the lesson ended, Hazrat himself would explain it further
And wouldn't say this was wrong - would say this point was missed by Maulana Sahib
Since such things can be missed, it came to my mind so let me complete it
This was the style of teaching with love
The wealth of love for the Prophet - even today, Alhamdulillah, my noble family
is filled to the brim with it. Subhan Allah!
Now see, there was a great scholar in Pakistan named Maulana Abdul Ghafoor
Ghazalvi Rahmatullah Alayh, Sheikh-ul-Quran. Masha Allah, Subhan Allah!
He was delivering a sermon and looked around
and addressed Zahuri Sahib and Maulana Muhammad Hussain Gulfurosh
He said, Brother Gulfurosh, tell Zahuri that here at Chura Sharif, speak very carefully
Here the ocean of love for Mustafa must be navigated carefully
And if I slip slightly, young Sahihzadas are sitting here - don't think them small
they will catch me immediately. This is the situation
And I still remember the gathering at Khanqah Chura Sharif
Hazoor Qibla Zia-ul-Ummat Pir Muhammad Karam Shah Al-Azhari
Subhan Allah! The cultivator of love for Mustafa
Allah! He was speaking and the scene was that
the Sahihzadas were swaying and tears were flowing from their eyes
When they stood for Salam and this verse was recited - those whose prostration
the mihrab of Kaaba used to bow for
Ask anyone who was there - Pir Karam Shah Azhari also fell into prostration
The Sahihzadas also fell into prostration, and all the people fell into prostration
And the one reciting Salam repeated this verse approximately 18 times
Subhan Allah! And when he stopped, he said, for God's sake
please raise your heads, I don't understand what to do
This wealth of love for the Prophet is common. Even today I say with confidence
that anyone can go to Chura Sharif, take hold of any Sahihzada
and ask them any question - see what happens. And even today our state here is
that when the youth gather together - we are the old ones among them
When we sit together, I often tell the Sahihzadas
to recite some Naat. Among them is our Sahihzada Fasih-ud-Din
You understand - he's a very good Naat reciter. And Ali Abbas Shah Sahib
has a beautiful voice. And Hazrat Maulana Allama Sahihzada Muhammad Farooq-ul-Islam
Sahib is a great scholar, a Qazi, and has a wonderful voice
and recites beautiful Naat. Similarly among young Sahihzadas, Razi Abbas Sahib
is my cousin - son of my very affectionate uncle
All of them recite Naat together. Just a year ago, we were sitting in the mosque
They said to me, Brother, you're sitting quietly. I said my health isn't good
so create some atmosphere. They said we'll create it right now
And they created such an atmosphere - three of them sat together and started reciting Naat
And that Naat was - we were sitting inside Baba Ji's mosque
The Naat was: The river of Your mercy flows openly
Subhan Allah! I'm receiving alms, my work is progressing
Subhan Allah! Your name is above the Throne, Your name is everywhere
And when they reached the final verse
that whatever I have is the charity of Mustafa, this slave lives on Your scraps
All the Sahihzadas sitting in the mosque - screams and wails could be heard
Alhamdulillah, the wealth of love for Mustafa was being distributed then
and even today it is being distributed. Every young person, Alhamdulillah
you will find is practicing religion with love for Mustafa Karim in their heart
And especially in this era when great people are wavering
Sahihzadas are wavering - but I say with pride that my Baba Ji's descendants
the youth, even today in matters of creed are so firm and steadfast
that no one can shake them or challenge them
The state of love for Mustafa is such that wherever you go - Ramadan in Madinah Munawwarah
Alhamdulillah, Chura Sharif is being represented. Go for Hajj
Chura Sharif is being represented. All the youth, Masha Allah
the apple of my Baba Ji's eyes, my Baba Ji's pure progeny, Alhamdulillah
each one better than the other is spreading this wealth of love
At that time there were ships - steamers they called them
Ships departed from Bombay - that was the port for all India
There were multiple attendances. Hajj at that time wasn't easy - it took 3-4 months
Even going for Hajj took 3-4 months. So there were multiple attendances
I don't have exact numbers but there were many blessed attendances
of Baba Ji Sahib in Madinah Tayyibah. Subhan Allah!
This is also a good question. The elders of that time, those who were peers of his
after hearing this, each would teach their own spiritual path
For example, I'll mention Golra Sharif as a reference
It's a sad thing today that there's a strange jealousy in hearts
People don't even like to mention others' names. We weren't taught this
We were taught that one who is miserly can never become a Faqir
He can never become a Sufi - one who is miserly. Indeed! Subhan Allah!
So with great confidence, Alhamdulillah, we mention the Sufis
and refresh our faith. Darbar Aaliya Golra Sharif is a great Khanqah of Chishti order
And on their pulpit, two books were always present
One was Muhyiddin Ibn Arabi's Fusus al-Hikam and one was Masnavi Sharif
Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Mehr Ali Shah would regularly teach these. Subhan Allah!
Lessons would be held. Similarly in our Khwajagan tradition
especially Baba Ji Sahib would regularly at night quote from Maktubat Sharif
of Hazrat Mujaddid Pak and speak. The phrase would be: My Imam Rabbani has said this
My Imam Rabbani has said this. Allahu Akbar!
This tradition continued - almost daily after Maghrib prayers
this practice would continue. The phrase was always: My Imam Rabbani has said this
And he would often say, read Maktubat Sharif
embrace it and derive benefit from it. Subhan Allah!
The blessed gathering - how do I describe it? Just understand it was like several suns
several moons. Subhan Allah! White face. Subhan Allah!
And on the head, a white blessed turban. Subhan Allah!
On the shoulders, a black shawl. Locks flowing
As Riaz-ud-Din Sahib has a verse of Naat
I'm not attributing it to them, it's a Naat verse
about the blessed locks swaying, displaying the glory of the Prophet
Swaying locks demonstrating the honor of the Trustworthy One
I don't know if this Naat is recited anymore - Riaz-ud-Din Sordi Sahib recited it to me
in Madinah Pak 20-25 years ago. So the locks, white blessed beard
practicing Shariah, Masha Allah! Good height, reddish complexion
shawl on shoulders of light pearl color. Sometimes white Boski coat with a chain
and in the pocket a watch. Blessed staff in hand
The staff would come up to here - to the waist. And the walking style
was neither fast nor slow - moderate. And not in the habit of talking while walking
When walking, walk silently. Don't talk while standing
When you start walking, just walk. This was the style. What more can I tell you
what he was like, how he was. That blessed sight is now forgotten. Subhan Allah!
Only those who saw him can describe. Hazoor Qibla Baba Ji Sahib Rahmatullah Alayh
From one mother's lineage, the eldest was Pir Haider Shah Sahib
The younger one was Pir Mahboob Shah Sahib
Younger than them was Pir Roshan Shah Sahib
But during this time, Hazoor's mother passed away and Hazoor Qibla Baba Ji
Zulfan Wali Sarkar married a second time from Muzaffarabad
From that Mai Sahiba, one son was born. She also passed away
That son - Mian Ghulam Rasool Sahib from Muzaffarabad
was also Speaker of Assembly. The place is called Barmala
Barmala - our cousin family still lives there
These Muzaffarabad Gilanis are our cousin family - we have relations with them
whether from Muzaffarabad, or Garhi Dupatta, or Bangla Saidaan
That Sahihzada's blessed name was Baba Ji Pir Sarwar Shah Rahmatullah Alayh
meaning age-wise he was the youngest of all
But since he was also a Sahihzada, I've seen him and it didn't feel different
The atmosphere was such that no one felt different. Their appearance
showed they were brothers. Very few people knew their mothers were different
He was also Masha Allah very handsome and beautiful
and worth seeing. Subhan Allah!
Sarkar's blessed age - when he passed away
he himself had mentioned somewhere that his age was around 125 years
Subhan Allah! But the amazing thing was
that he never wore glasses his entire life. Subhan Allah!
Never wore glasses and never said that he couldn't hear properly
Never said that either. Allah! Subhan Allah!
And his study habit was such - a small cot with woven rope, a small old broken table
and Hadith Sharif would be open on it. I remember to this day
sometimes Ibn Kathir would be open, meaning Quran commentaries, Hadith Sharif
He had to study that, and many other books he would study
And that study was essential - all by lantern light
but never said my eyesight has weakened or my hearing has weakened
Sarkar could hear even the softest voice but wouldn't immediately respond
If someone said something, wouldn't reply - for confirmation would ask another
what was said, then would respond. The sequence was
first Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Roshan Shah Sahib Roshan Din, the younger brother, passed away
He was very handsome, Masha Allah, and young when he passed away
Our burial custom is that women's graves are separate, men's graves are separate
Pir Roshan Shah Sahib's grave was made. Then Pir Sarwar Shah Sahib
Baba Ji's grave is in Muzaffarabad Barmala Sharif
Then when grandfather passed away, his grave was made beside Baba Ji Zulfan Wali Sarkar
Then Pir Mahboob Shah Sahib passed away
and was buried in the adjacent chamber. That's all - nothing special about it
The dust returned to where its origin was. Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah!
Subhan Allah! But this was such an amazing thing
The fact is that throughout his life he never wore glasses. Subhan Allah!
Never wore glasses, and throughout his life never said "What did you say? I can't hear well"
He never said that either. Allah! Subhan Allah!
And his dedication to study was such that there was a small rope cot, and here a small
old broken table would be placed, and on it the Hadith Sharif would be open
I still remember that sometimes Tafsir Ibn Kathir would be open, and sometimes the Quran
Kareem's commentaries and Hadith Sharif would be studied. He would do this study, and many other
books were in his regular reading, and this study was mandatory, and that too
by lantern light. But he never said "My eyesight has weakened" or "My hearing
has weakened." He would hear even the softest word, but wouldn't reply immediately - if
someone made a request, he wouldn't respond right away. For confirmation he would ask another person
what was said, then he would respond. The sequence was
first Hazrat Baba Ji Pir Roshan Shah Sahib Roshan Din, the younger brother, passed away. He was
Masha Allah very handsome and young when he passed away. Now our
burial custom here is that women's graves are separate, men's graves are separate
Pir Roshan Shah Sahib's grave was made. And that grave was established at that time. After that
Pir Sarwar Shah Sahib Baba Ji's blessed grave is in Muzaffarabad Barmala Sharif
Then when grandfather passed away, his grave was made beside Baba Ji Zulfan Wali Sarkar
Then Pir Mahboob Shah Sahib passed away, and
was buried in the adjacent chamber. That's all - nothing special about it. Just
the dust returned to where its origin was. Subhan Allah! Subhan Allah!